development path
O2O, Online To Offline, refers to the combination of offline business opportunities and the Internet, making the Internet a front-end for offline transactions. This concept originated from the United States. The concept of O2O is very extensive. As long as the industry chain can be related to both online and offline, it can be called O2O.
O2O e-commerce model needs to have five elements: independent online mall, national authoritative industry credible website certification, online online advertising marketing promotion, comprehensive social media and customer online interaction, online and offline integrated member marketing system.
One view is that a company can have both an online store and an offline store, and the online store and the offline store have the same price, which can be called O2O; there is also a view that O2O is B2C (Business To Customers) a special form.
In the early days of 1.0, O2O was initially docked online and offline, mainly by using the convenience of online promotion to concentrate related users, and then dumping the online traffic to the offline. The main areas are concentrated on the US group. Online group buying and promotion areas. In this process, there are mainly unidirectional, low viscosity and so on. There is less interaction between the platform and the user, basically ending with the completion of the transaction. Users are more driven by factors such as price, and the frequency of purchase and consumption is relatively low.
After the 2.0 phase, O2O basically has the elements that everyone understands. The most important feature of this stage is the upgrade to the service e-commerce model: including goods (services), orders, payment and other processes, to transfer the previous simple e-commerce module to higher frequency and life-oriented scenarios. Since the traditional service industry has been in an inefficient state and the labor is under-digested, under the promotion of the new model and the catalysis of capital, there has been a wave of O2O carnival, so the door-to-door massage, door-to-door delivery, home-made fresh, home-made makeup Various O2O modes, such as drip taxis, are beginning to emerge. At this stage, due to the maturity of mobile terminals, WeChat payment, data algorithms, etc., coupled with the catalysis of capital, users have blowouts, the frequency of use and loyalty began to rise, and O2O began to merge with the daily life of users and become life. An inseparable part. However, in the middle of this, there are many seemingly prosperous demands. Due to the large subsidies of capital, the false bubbles cover up the real situation. There are a lot of business models that are not rigid demand, such as massage, car wash and so on.
In the 3.0 stage, there was a clear differentiation, and some companies in the real vertical segmentation field began to emerge. For example, focusing on the express delivery of express logistics, focusing on the delicious taste of high-end restaurants, etc., focus on the speed of white-collar fast meals. The other is the development of a platform-based model in the vertical segmentation field. From the original segment of the field to solve a certain pain point mode began to expand horizontally, covering the entire industry.
For example, from the early take-out to the later open hummingbird system, the formal integration of third-party teams and crowdsourcing logistics began. Taking the franchisee as the main body, the self-operated distribution is used as a template and operation center, and the long-tail order is operated through crowdsourcing cooperation. The distribution categories include fresh, super-products, and even laundry services to achieve platform-based operations. [1] 
On June 8, 2013, Suning’s online and offline prices opened the prelude to the O2O model.
Core Technology
The core of the O2O marketing model is online payment.
This is not only because online services cannot be shipped in a box, but more importantly, the express itself cannot convey the happiness of the social experience. However, if the O2O model can be used to display offline goods and services and provide online payment “reservation consumption”, this will not only broaden the choice for consumers, but also the most anticipated selection through online comparison. The service, as well as the more suitable services offered by the merchants according to the regional preferences of the consumers. But if there is no online display, it may be difficult for consumers to know the business information, not to mention the consumption word. In addition, merchants who are currently using O2O to explore the front line often use more favorable means than online payment to attract customers to pay online, which also saves consumers a lot of expenses.
On the surface, the key to O2O seems to be the release of information on the Internet, because only the Internet can spread business information faster, farther, and wider, and can instantly gather powerful spending power. But in fact, the core of O2O is online payment.
Value
The advantage of O2O is the perfect combination of online and offline advantages. Through the online shopping guide, the Internet and the ground store are perfectly connected to achieve the Internet landing. Allow consumers to enjoy online discounted prices while enjoying offline services. At the same time, the O2O model can also achieve alliances between different businesses.
1. The O2O model makes full use of the advantages of the Internet across regions, borderless, massive information, and massive users. At the same time, it fully exploits offline resources, and thus facilitates the transactions between online users and offline goods and services. Group buying is a typical representative of O2O.
2. The O2O mode can intuitively count and track the marketing effects of the merchants, avoiding the unpredictability of the promotion effect of the traditional marketing model. O2O combines online orders with offline consumption, and all consumer behaviors can be accurately counted. In turn, more businesses are attracted to provide consumers with more quality products and services.
3, O2O has advantages in the service industry, the price is cheap, the purchase is convenient, and the discount information can be known in time.
4. The development direction of e-commerce will be broadened, from large-scale to diversified.
5. The O2O model has opened up the online and offline information and experience links, allowing offline consumers to avoid the “price blindness” suffered by information asymmetry, and at the same time realize the “pre-sales experience” of online consumers.
Overall, the O2O mode is running well and will achieve a "three wins" effect;
For local merchants, the O2O model requires consumers to pay for the website, and the payment information will become a channel for the merchant to understand the consumer's shopping information, so that the merchant can collect the data purchased by the consumer, thereby achieving the purpose of precision marketing, and better maintaining and expanding. client. Customers who increase their online resources will not bring too much cost to the business, but will bring more profits. In addition, the O2O model reduces the merchant's dependence on the location of the store to a certain extent, reducing the rental expenses.
For consumers, O2O provides rich, comprehensive and timely merchant discount information, which can quickly filter and order suitable goods or services at an affordable price.
For service providers, the O2O model can bring large-scale, high-viscosity consumers and gain more merchant resources. Mastering large consumer data resources, and the highly localized vertical website can provide other value-added services for merchants through the O2O model.
Business model
Different from the traditional consumer direct consumption model, in the O2O platform business model, the entire consumption
O2O
O2O
The process consists of two parts, the line and the line. The online platform provides consumers with consumer guides, offers, convenience services (booking, online payments, maps, etc.) and sharing platforms, while offline merchants focus on providing services. In the O2O model, the consumer's consumption process can be broken down into five phases:
The first stage: drainage
As an entry point for offline consumption decisions, online platforms can bring together a large number of consumers with consumer demand, or trigger consumer demand for offline consumption. Common O2O platform import portals include: consumer reviews sites such as public comment; electronic maps such as Baidu maps, high German maps; social networking sites or applications such as WeChat and Renren.
Second stage: conversion
The online platform provides detailed information, discounts (such as group purchases, coupons) and convenience services to consumers, facilitating consumers to search and compare shops, and ultimately helping consumers to select offline merchants and complete consumer decisions.
The third stage: consumption
Consumers use online access to offline merchants to receive services and complete consumption.
Fourth stage: feedback
Consumers feed back their consumption experience to an online platform that helps other consumers make consumer decisions. By analyzing and analyzing consumer feedback, the online platform forms a more complete local store information database, which can attract more consumers to use the online platform.
The fifth stage: retention
The online platform establishes communication channels for consumers and local merchants, which can help local merchants maintain consumer relationships and enable consumers to repeat consumption and become repeat customers.
Main problem
Profit model
O2O is now more optimistic about investors because of its uncertainties in the future, which indicates the uncertainty of its opportunity cost and sunk cost. If the probability of a deterministic event is at least 80%, then the actual odds of the investment institution are generally only 20%.
O2O is currently divided into a vertical blood industry chain and a parallel dominant industrial chain. The vertical model uses a certain point as a breakthrough point and then establishes an industry chain from upstream to downstream; the other is also based on a certain point, and then Establish a closed-loop ecological chain and share information. But no matter which mode is in the water test stage, vertical needs a strong resource integration capability. This ability is difficult for many industries, because it is now a highly-distributed society, and coordination of resources and information is needed. Strong human and material resources, not to mention the company that just started a business. The data processing capability required by the parallel eco-chain model requires not only the embodiment of the company's own strength, but also the integration of the society, which is more difficult than the first one. The first is to care for the happiness of a family, and the latter is to care for the happiness of all human beings, so these factors lead to the unknown profit model of O2O, but small-scale profit is still feasible.
Balance mode
The pure Internet era is the era of information, not paying attention to people, only focusing on information, and O2O is the embodiment of the post-Internet, and it is people-oriented. Many companies and people are talking about people-oriented, but it is still difficult to achieve China's current economic capabilities. The greatest thing about O2O is not to establish a new model, but to really start from the perspective of personal needs. , redefining economic philosophy. But the new model is awkward, and how to deal with the balance with consumers is another issue for O2O. For example, take-out, how long to send, leave what you need to say to let the customer order their own take-out next time, such as laundry, whether the customer has all the requirements, how to adjust the relationship between service and experience, this is O2O in the next The primary challenge that the stage will face.
Contrast difference
One of the more explanations for O2O reference is that O2O (Online To Offline) is online to offline. The core is to bring online consumers to the real store, that is, let users pay online under the purchase line. After the goods and services, go to the line and enjoy the service.
First of all, the real O2O should be based on the physical store itself, both online and offline. The online and offline should be an organic integration. You have me, I have you, information sharing resources, online and offline interaction, instead of The simple "from the line to the offline" is not simply "from the line to the line." O2O should serve all physical businesses, not just a few types of food and entertainment; secondly, O2O should involve mainstream goods of physical businesses, not just individual specials. Most importantly, for the entity business, the Internet is just a tool for it, and any method of putting the cart before the horse will shake the development foundation of the physical business.
First, the difference between O2O and B2C
The same point of O2O and B2C is a form of service. If you look at it from the perspective of consumer retail services, the biggest scope is retail, which includes traditional retail formats (such as large supermarkets, standard supermarkets, convenience stores, specialty stores, brand stores, category stores; and cross-category, such as Chain stores, shopping malls, etc.); from the early retail service methods can be: store sales, no store sales (including TV, telephone, directory, Internet, etc.).
We can also clearly understand the difference between O2O and B2C:
difference
1, O2O is more focused on service consumption (including catering, film, beauty, SPA, travel, fitness, car rental, renting ...); B2C is more focused on shopping (physical goods, such as electrical appliances, clothing, etc.);
2, O2O consumers get services on the spot, involving passenger flow; B2C consumers stay in the office or at home, waiting for goods to come to the door, involving logistics;
3, O2O inventory is a service, B2C inventory is a commodity;
Same point
1, the first interaction between consumers and servers is online (especially including mobile phones);
2, the main process is closed, and all online, such as online payment, customer service, etc.;
3, demand forecast management in the background, supply chain management is the core of O2O and B2C success;
O2O applicable industry
Catering industry, service industry, group purchase almost adopt O2O mode
Regarding the payment method, the industry pointed out that "using two-dimensional code, sound wave and other payment methods, there is no need to worry about the need to prepare cash in advance, and there is no need to worry about receiving counterfeit money, and you can control sales in real time."
As a two-line retailer, brands and retailers of wired retail channels and offline retail channels can be collectively referred to as O2O. Some people are more detailed, and the integrated "double store" business model that integrates offline (physical store) and online (online store) is called OAO (Online And Offline), but some people prefer to use this type. The commodity retail enterprise is called B2C. No matter what it is called, the combination of online and offline retail channels of this model has already been representative. This is the collective representation of traditional retail enterprises as e-commerce. The best way to do this model is Suning Tesco, which is good for back-end system management.
From the consumption content can be divided into services and products, the above several O2O models are surrounded by "service consumption", the O2O model of two-line retail is surrounded by "product consumption." The O2O model around "product consumption" is not only a two-line combination of retail enterprises. Compared with B2C, there are many products that are more suitable for O2O mode. For example, some enterprises have begun to adopt non-standards such as real estate, automobiles, furniture, cabinets, and glasses. Trying on high-priced products, and achieving good results, such products require a strong user experience, although B2C can also be sold, but can not meet the needs of most users, O2O is a more ideal form of consumption.
Industry development
Baidu
Beginning in the second half of 2015, Baidu has increased its efforts to direct core traffic resources to O2O. Li Yanhong has used 20 billion yuan to support the development of Baidu's glutinous rice, and launched the O2O support plan from the company's strategy.
First, in terms of imports, data for the third quarter of 2015 showed that Baidu maintained its absolute advantage in the search market with a share of 81.11%, and the revenue of the mobile market has already surpassed that of the PC. At the same time, the market share of Baidu Mobile Assistant has been leading for 9 consecutive months, from the traffic portal to the super portal. In addition, mobile phones Baidu, Baidu maps, etc. have also become super APP.
For the next step in the portal, Baidu chose the scene. The first is to strengthen the search service scenario (for example, after a user searches for a movie, the previous search is only for the display of information content, and Baidu is currently doing the online purchase of votes through glutinous rice, payment, maps, etc. Seat and take the vehicle
